Add VOLDEV, RationalDegradationFunction and Unit tests (#265)
applied-material-modeling/neml2: doc/content/physics/phase_field_fracture.md

> # Phase Field Fracture {#phase-field-fracture}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Phase-Field Fracture {#phase-field-fracture}
```

[TOC]

> The **Phase Field Fracture** physics module is a collection of objects (smaller models) serving as building blocks for composing models describing the evoluion of regularized fracture that converges to sharp crack according to \f$ \boldsymbol{\Gamma} \f$ convergence theorem, and the accompanying loss of materials' load bearing cappacity. The models defined in this module offer a set of phase field fracture constitutive choices that can be utilized to set up a fracture simulation using both staggered and monolithic solution schemes. Currently, the module supports only linear isotropic response. However, they can be coupled with appropriate **Solid Mechanics** objects to simulate a variety of energy dissipation coupled with fracture. They can potentially be coupled with other physics as well. This documentation offers a short description of each object under this module followed by a comprehensive example showing how each of them can be used to compose a bigger model describing fracture locally at a single material point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **phase-field fracture** physics module is a collection of objects serving as building blocks for composing models describing the evolution of regularized fracture, and the accompanying loss of materials' load-bearing capacity. The models defined in this module offer a set of phase-field fracture constitutive choices that can be utilized to set up a fracture simulation using both staggered and monolithic solution schemes.

This module can be coupled with other physics modules to describe energy dissipation coupled with fracture. For example, the **solid mechanics** module can be coupled to simulate a variety of (visco)plastic dissipation. This documentation offers a short description of each object under this module followed by a comprehensive example showing how each of them can be used to compose a bigger model describing fracture evolution locally at independent material points.
```

> ## Crack Geometric Functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Crack geometric functions
```

> The crack geometric function, \f$ \alpha(\phi) \f$ determines the distribution of the crack phase field that governs the shape of the smeared crack. Given the phase field, \f$ \phi \f$, it calculates the corresponding scalar value of the crack geometric function. At present, the module offers the following crack geometric functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crack geometric function, \f$ \alpha(\phi) \f$ determines the distribution of the crack phase field that governs the "shape" of the smeared crack. Given the phase field, \f$ \phi \f$, it calculates the corresponding scalar-valued crack geometric function. Below are some example crack geometric functions.
```

#### [CrackGeometricFunctionAT1](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-models.html)
Providing linear distribution of the phase field with, \f$ \alpha(\phi) = \phi \f$.

#### [CrackGeometricFunctionAT2](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-models.html)

> Providing quadratic distribution of the phase field with, \f$ \alpha(\phi) = \phi^2 \f$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CrackGeometricFunctionAT1](#crackgeometricfunctionat1)
- [CrackGeometricFunctionAT2](#crackgeometricfunctionat2)
```

> ## Degradation Functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Degradation functions
```

> Generally, as the fracture evolves, the material gradually loses its strength to support tensile loads. Given the phase field, \f$ \phi \f$, degradation functions, \f$ g(\phi) \f$ calculate the corresponding scalar value of the function to degrade the material stiffness. Currently, the module offers the following degradation functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, as the fracture evolves, the material gradually loses its load-carrying capacity. Given the phase field, \f$ \phi \f$, the degradation function, \f$ g(\phi) \f$ calculates the corresponding scalar-valued function to degrade the materials' stiffness. Some example degradation functions are listed below.
```

#### [PowerDegradationFunction](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-models.html)
Calculates the degradation according to, \f$ g(\phi) = (1-\phi)^p \f$.

#### [RationalDegradationFunction](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-models.html)

> Calculates the degradation according to, \f$ g(\phi) = \frac{(1-\phi)^p}{(1-\phi)^p+Q(\phi)} \f$ where \f$ Q(\phi) = b_1\phi (1+b_2 \phi + b_2 b_3 \phi^2) \f$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [PowerDegradationFunction](#powerdegradationfunction)
- [RationalDegradationFunction](#rationaldegradationfunction)
```

## Strain Energy Density

> As mentioned in the begining, given a strain tensor as its input, [**LinearIsotropicStrainEnergyDensity**](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-models.html) model calculates the active part of the strain energy density, \f$ \psi_{active} \f$ that drives the fracture propagation and the inactive part, \f$ \psi_{inactive} \f$ according to the linear isotropic response. The following decomposition schemes are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module also offers definitions of the strain energy density to facilitate the setup of variational constitutive update. Given the strain as input, the strain energy density objects calculate the active part of the strain energy density, \f$ \psi_\mathrm{active} \f$ that drives the fracture propagation and the inactive part, \f$ \psi_\mathrm{inactive} \f$.
```

#### NONE
No decomposition of the strain energy density. Therefore,
\f[
 \psi_{active} = \frac{1}{2} \boldsymbol{\sigma} : \boldsymbol{\varepsilon} \,\,\, and \,\,\, \psi_{inactive} = 0
\f]

#### VOLDEV
Strain energy density is decomposed into active and inactive parts following the decomposition of the linearized strain tensor into volumetric and deviatoric components. Therefore,

\f[
 \boldsymbol{\varepsilon} = \boldsymbol{\varepsilon_{vol}} + \boldsymbol{\varepsilon_{dev}}, \,\,\, \boldsymbol{\varepsilon_{vol}} = \frac{1}{3}tr(\boldsymbol{\varepsilon}), \,\,\, \boldsymbol{\varepsilon_{dev}} = \boldsymbol{\varepsilon} - \frac{1}{3}tr(\boldsymbol{\varepsilon})
\f]

\f[
 \psi_{active} = \frac{1}{2} \kappa \langle tr(\boldsymbol{\varepsilon})^2 \rangle_+ + \mu \boldsymbol{\varepsilon_{dev}} : \boldsymbol{\varepsilon_{dev}}
\f]

\f[
 \psi_{inactive} = \frac{1}{2} \kappa \langle tr(\boldsymbol{\varepsilon})^2 \rangle_- 

> \f]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Example

> In this section, we'll describe how everything discussed above fits together to compose a bigger model that can be used to simulate fracture evolution at a material point. In the classical phase field fracture, the governing equations that pop out from the minimization of the total energy of the domain - expressed as the sum of the strain energy and fracture energy - are as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll describe how everything discussed above fits together to compose a bigger model that can be used to simulate fracture evolution at material points. Consider the following governing equation for crack propagation 
```

\f{align}

>  - \div \boldsymbol{\sigma} & = 0 \\ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  \mathcal{E}_{,\phi} & = - \div \frac{2G_cl}{c_0} \grad \phi + \frac{\partial}{\partial \phi} \left( \alpha \frac{G_c}{c_0 l} + g(\phi) \psi_{active} \right) \ge 0, \,\,\,\, \dot{\phi} \ge 0, \,\,\,\, \mathcal{E}_{,\phi}\dot{\phi}=0 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 f & = \eta \dot{\phi} + \frac{\partial}{\partial \phi} \left( \alpha \frac{G_c}{c_0 l} + g(\phi) \psi_\mathrm{active} \right) \ge 0, \quad \dot{\phi} \ge 0, \quad f \dot{\phi} = 0,
```

\f}

While Equation (1) describes the kinematics response, Equation (2) drives the evolution of the phase field describing the fracture of the body. It must be noted that the material stress \f$ \boldsymbol{\sigma} \f$ going in to the Equation (1) is degraded over time as the phase field depicting the crack evolves, i.e., \f$ \boldsymbol{\sigma} = \frac{\partial}{\partial \boldsymbol{\varepsilon}} \left(g(\phi) \psi_{active} \right) \f$. However, for a single material point, by ignoring the non-local terms of the governing equations, we only have the following equation with the KKT (Karush-Kuhn-Tucker) condition for ensuring the crack irreversibility constraint.

\f{align}
 \mathcal{E}_{,\phi}  =  \frac{\partial}{\partial \phi} \left( \alpha \frac{G_c}{c_0 l} + g(\phi) \psi_{active} \right) \ge 0, \,\,\,\, \dot{\phi} \ge 0, \,\,\,\, \mathcal{E}_{,\phi}\dot{\phi}=0 

\f}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The KKT condition associated with Equation (3) can be boiled down to a single equation using the Fischer-Burmeister complementary condition whose residual, \f$ r \f$ is defined below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which can be equivalently formulated using the Fischer-Burmeister complementarity condition as
```

\f{align}
 & r =  \mathcal{E}_{,\phi} + \dot{\phi} - \sqrt{\left( \mathcal{E}_{,\phi}^2 + \dot{\phi}^2 \right)} = 0\\
 & \text{where}, \,\,\,\, \mathcal{E}_{,\phi}  =  \frac{\partial}{\partial \phi} \left( \alpha \frac{G_c}{c_0 l} + g(\phi) \psi_{active} \right) \notag

> \f}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\f{align}
 f + \dot{\phi} - \sqrt{ f^2 + \dot{\phi}^2 } = 0.
\f}
```

> Now, Equation (4) can be easily implicitly solved for the phase field, \f$ \phi \f$ using the [ImplicitUpdate](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-models.html) with a [Newton](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-solvers.html) solver. The following example input file walks through the model composition and solution of Equation (4) where \f$ d \f$ is used instead of \f$ \phi \f$ as the phase field variable for the sake of brevity. Additionally, \f$ \dot{\phi} \f$ is added to the functional derivative, \f$ \mathcal{E}_{,\phi} \f$ to incorporate some viscous effect that regularizes the phase evolution over the time domain. Rerunning the input file without it will result in a faster phase evolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complementarity condition can be implicitly solved for the phase field, \f$ \phi \f$ using the [ImplicitUpdate](#implicitupdate) model. The implicit equation can also be coupled with other physics. The following example input file walks through the model composition where \f$ d \f$ is used instead of \f$ \phi \f$ as the phase-field variable for the sake of brevity.
```

 type = ComposedModel
 models = 'degrade sed0 sed1 sed cracked sum'
 []
 # phase rate, follows from the variation of total energy w.r.t. phase field
 [dpsidd]
 type = Normality
 model = 'energy'
 function = 'state/psi'
 from = 'state/d'
 to = 'state/dpsi_dd'
 []
 # obtain d_rate
 [drate]
 type = ScalarVariableRate
 variable = 'state/d'
 rate = 'state/d_rate'
 []
 # define functional
 [functional]
 type = ScalarLinearCombination
 from_var = 'state/dpsi_dd state/d_rate'
 to_var = 'state/F'
 coefficients = '1 1'
 []
 # Fischer Burmeister Complementary Condition
 [Fisch_Burm]
 type = FischerBurmeister
 first_var = 'state/F'
 second_var = 'state/d_rate'
 fischer_burmeister = 'residual/d'

 []
 # system of equations
 [eq]
 type = ComposedModel
 models = 'Fisch_Burm functional drate dpsidd'
 []
 # solve for d
 [solve_d]
 type = ImplicitUpdate
 implicit_model = 'eq'
 solver = 'newton'
 []
 # After the solve take the derivative of the total energy w.r.t. strain to get stress
 [stress]
 type = Normality
 model = 'energy'
 function = 'state/psi'
 from = 'forces/E'
 to = 'state/S'
 []
 [model]
 type = ComposedModel
 models = 'solve_d stress'
 additional_outputs = 'state/d'
 []
[]
```

> High resemblance can be observed between the input file describing model composition step by step and the theory described above. However, it must be noted that the stress evaluated at the end of the input file using [Normality](https://applied-material-modeling.github.io/neml2/syntax-models.html) acts as a postprocessor to verify our results. Consequently, one can easily visualize the phase evolution and resulting stress degradation presented below using the visualization techniques described in the previous tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stress evaluated at the end of the input file acts only as a post-processor to verify our results.
```

\anchor singlephase

> ![Evolution of the phase field describing fracture from 0 to 1][singlephase]{html: width=95%}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Evolution of the phase field][singlephase]{html: width=95%}
```

[singlephase]: asset/phase.png

\anchor singlestress

![Corresponding degradation of the uniaxial stress over time][singlestress]{html: width=95%}
[singlestress]: asset/stress.png

> Similarly, use of these phase field constitutive models under this module to calculate the material updates at each timestep for a full scale fracture simulation using PDEs involving non-local terms over the whole domain in [MOOSE](https://mooseframework.inl.gov), [RACCOON](https://hugary1995.github.io/raccoon/index.html) or other [MOOSE](https://mooseframework.inl.gov) based app is fairly straight forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Let's remove this paragraph for now. We can add it back when you add some examples in raccoon.
